---
layout: post
title:  "My Cyber War Story: Black Box Penetration Test Part 2"
author: emmanouil_perselis
categories: [ Redteaming ]
image: assets/images/serverroom.jpg
description: "My Cyber War Story: Black Box Penetration Test Part 2"
featured: false
hidden: false
---

Disclaimer

-   All screenshots used in this article are mere representations and
    not the actual screenshots from the penetration test.

-   This story is my professional experience based on a client's
    request. It is illegal to penetrate a system without agreement of
    the owner.

My Cyber War Story: Black Box Penetration Test 1 (link)

## Cracking the domain passwords

There were more credentials of C-level executives to be found. Since I
already had access to the Domain Controller, I decided to crack the
passwords in the domain. To achieve that, I had to create a shadow copy
of the C drive on the Domain Controller as copying ntds.dit (Active
Directory database) isn't (easily) possible without it.

![Creation of a volume shadow copy using
VSSAdmin](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image5.png){width="6.527779965004375in"
height="0.9680555555555556in"}

![Copying Ntds.dit file from a volume shadow
copy](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image6.png){width="6.531944444444444in"
height="0.5354166666666667in"}

The system key was also needed to retrieve the hashes, so it had to be
copied too.

![Extracting the SYSTEM file through the
registry](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image7.png){width="4.920138888888889in"
height="0.35208333333333336in"}

![Extracting the System file from the volume shadow
copy](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image8.png){width="6.531944444444444in"
height="0.42083333333333334in"}

After storing the hashes locally, cracking them was easy since they are
hashed by a weak format, LM. All of the above were done of course with
the help of [John the Ripper](https://www.openwall.com/john/) (cracking
tool).

![07 - john](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image9.png){width="6.531944444444444in"
height="3.5131944444444443in"}

## Setting up a Phishing Page

Although cracking the domain passwords of all C level executives was
successful, one of them did not reuse the same password on the
applications linked to financial transactions. So I had to devise
another plan. This made me use the almighty spear-phishing attack that
has never failed me before.

To make the attack credible, I copied an internal web page with
[HTTrack](https://www.httrack.com/) and changed the back end to log the
entered credentials.

![](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image10.png){width="4.48799978127734in"
height="2.9740277777777777in"}

Since I had access to the Domain Controller, I added a credible DNS A
record to point to my phishing page.

![Add Host A Record in Windows DNS
Server](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image11.png){width="3.54375in"
height="3.3520833333333333in"}

## Phishing

The phishing page was up and running. As a final step, I needed to send
the phishing link with a good story behind it. To make the story
credible, the communication had to be done from a legitimate account (or
at least what looked as a legitimate account). The company mail servers
allowed open relay. This allowed me to send a mail on behalf of a
"system administrator" asking the CFO to test the "new file sharing
system".

![](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image12.png){width="4.844425853018373in"
height="2.59411198600175in"}

To make the page seem legitimate, I had also requested a HTTPS
certificate from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) so that the
URL had the "secure lock" activated.

![](../assets/images/Posts/WarStoryEmmanouil/image13.png){width="1.166829615048119in"
height="0.39588910761154855in"}

The CFO gladly complied to the request of the "system administrator".
This way, I was able to collect the last set of credentials needed!

## Aftermath

After successfully reaching the black box penetration test goals in only
2 days, the client requested me to conduct a white box test next. Not
long after the tests, the client performed a mass-update of their
systems and migrated to the cloud. In short, they dodged the bullet (or
rather the homing missile) as they realized the exploitation path I
followed was not complex and could have been performed by even less
experienced hackers.
